Add agent monitoring and observing doc (#2256)
buildkite/docs: pages/agent/v3/monitoring.md

# Monitoring and observing the Buildkite Agent

> By default, the Buildkite Agent is only observable either through Buildkite or

Reviewer: I don't think we need to call it the Buildkite agent here:

```suggestion
By default, the agent is only observable either through Buildkite or
```

 through log output on the host:

> - Job logs, which relate to the jobs the agent runs, are uploaded to Buildkite,
>  and are shown for each step in a build.
> - Agent logs, which relate to how the agent itself is running, are not uploaded
>  or saved (except where this is done by another process such as systemd or
>  launchd).

Reviewer: Formatting and splitting the sentences:

```suggestion
- **Job logs:** Relate to the jobs the agent runs. These are uploaded to Buildkite and shown for each step in a build.
- **Agent logs:** Relate to how the agent itself is running. These are not uploaded or saved (except where this is done by another process such as systemd or launchd).
```

Reviewer: Are there links we could include for systemd and launchd?

Reviewer: Thoughts on the formatting update I suggested?

Author: Err, yes, forgot to click the button for that one.

## Health checking and status page

> The agent can optionally run a HTTP service that describes the state of the
> agent. The service is suitable for both automated health-checking and human
> inspection.

Reviewer: General fixes:

```suggestion
The agent can optionally run an HTTP service that describes the agent's state. The service is suitable for both automated health checks and human inspection.
```

You can enable the service with the `--health-check-addr` flag or
`$BUILDKITE_AGENT_HEALTH_CHECK_ADDR` environment variable:

```shell

> buildkite-agent start --health-check-addr=:3901

Reviewer: Will it always be `3901`?

Author: No, that's just an example. So I suppose it should be introduced with a "For example, ..."

```

> For security reasons, we recommend that you do **not** expose the service

Reviewer: Match the emphasis you use below with italics rather than bold here:

```suggestion
For security reasons, we recommend that you do _not_ expose the service
```

directly to the internet. While there should be no ability to manipulate the
agent state using this service, it may expose information, or provide a vector
for a denial-of-service attack. We may also add new features to the service in

> future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the future.
```

### Health checking service routes

> 

Reviewer: Is there a lead in sentence you could add to give a little more context to what this list represents?

- **`/`**: Returns HTTP status 200 with the text `OK: Buildkite agent is
  running`.
- **`/agent/(worker number)`**: Reports the time since the agent worker
  succeeded at sending a heartbeat. Workers are numbered starting from 1,
  and the number of workers is set with the `--spawn` flag. If the previous
  heartbeat for this worker failed, it returns HTTP status 500 and a description

>   of the failure, otherwise it returns HTTP status 200.

Reviewer: Splitting the sentence to make it a bit simpler:

```suggestion
  of the failure. Otherwise, it returns HTTP status 200.
```

- **`/status`**: A human-friendly page detailing various systems inside the

>   agent. To aid debugging, this page does *not* automatically refresh - it shows

Reviewer: Break up sentences like this with an em-dash and no additional spaces:

```suggestion
  agent. To aid debugging, this page does *not* automatically refresh—it shows
```

>   the status of each agent internal at a particular moment in time.

Reviewer: Is "internal" important here? I think it makes the sentence harder to read.

```suggestion
  the status of each agent at a particular moment in time.
```

Author: I meant "each internal component of the agent"

Reviewer: How about updating it to include that? I think it makes it clearer.

```suggestion
  the status of each internal component of the agent at a particular moment in time.
```

> <%= image 'status-page.png', size: '600x437', alt: 'Agent internal status page' %>

Reviewer: I think it would be good to introduce this image to give it some context. Perhaps adding something like:

```suggestion
The following shows the `/status` page for an agent:

<%= image 'status-page.png', size: '600x437', alt: 'Agent internal status page' %>
```

## Tracing

> For Datadog APM or OpenTelemetry tracing, see our
> [tracing](/docs/agent/v3/tracing) docs.

Reviewer: I generally try to avoid "our" because it can be confusing about who it includes. Best to just use the page title:

```suggestion
For Datadog APM or OpenTelemetry tracing, see [Tracing in the Buildkite Agent](/docs/agent/v3/tracing).
```

# Monitoring and observing the Buildkite Agent

By default, the agent is only observable either through Buildkite or
 through log output on the host:

- **Job logs:** Relate to the jobs the agent runs. These are uploaded to
  Buildkite and shown for each step in a build.
- **Agent logs:** Relate to how the agent itself is running. These are not
  uploaded or saved (except where the output from the agent is read or
  redirected by another process, such as [systemd] or [launchd]).

## Health checking and status page

The agent can optionally run an HTTP service that describes the agent's state.
The service is suitable for both automated health checks and human inspection.

You can enable the service with the `--health-check-addr` flag or
`$BUILDKITE_AGENT_HEALTH_CHECK_ADDR` environment variable. For example, to
enable the service listening on local port 3901, you can use:

```shell
buildkite-agent start --health-check-addr=:3901
```

The flag expects [a "host:port" address](https://pkg.go.dev/net#Dial).

> Passing `:0` allows the agent to choose a port which will be logged at startup.

Reviewer: Missing comma:

```suggestion
Passing `:0` allows the agent to choose a port, which will be logged at startup.
```
